---
uid: 200704161341
tags: [correspondence]
---
  
# Announcement!

Church,

It was really good to be together at H——’s on Sunday. We worshiped God as we heard testimonies from A—— and B——, how God opened their eyes and saved them, and now they want to join themselves to Crossroads. With joy and many prayers we commissioned H—— and L—— to the mission work God has called them to. We will continue to pray for them (and I hope H—— and L—— continue to send us reports!). They invited us to their home this Thursday evening, 6:30 on the seminary campus.

We forgot to make an announcement after all of these things happened. We are going to have the baptism service next Sunday. J—— will share his testimony and be baptized. This means that we will meet one hour earlier, at 4pm, starting at Third Avenue Baptist Church. Because that church has their own service later in the evening, we will return to H——’s for the remainder of our church service.

It is located on the other side of campus from H——’s apartment and is quite easy to find. Park in their parking lot when you arrive, and enter through the front doors. Call us with any questions.

During next week’s service, we will also hear from others in the church who are going on short-term missions. We will support them generously. If you know of a ministry need or a personal need that our church can help with, please let us know before the meeting so that we can act on it.

Please help each other out by spreading this news so that everyone hears. Hope to see you there.

C.
