---
uid: 201505201725
reference: 
  url: https://alistapart.com/article/meta-moments-thoughtfulness-by-design
  title: "Meta-Moments: Thoughtfulness by Design"
  author: Andrew Grimes
  publication: A List Apart
  date: May 19, 2015
  accessed: May 20, 2015 at 5:25 PM
tags: [thinking, web development]
---

> Roadblocks come in many shapes and sizes, but they always enforce a conscious consideration of how best to proceed. Navigating around them gives us something to accomplish, and a story to tell. This is great for longer-term engagement — and it’s why digital craftspeople need to shift their thinking away from removing barriers and instead toward designing them. …
> 
> Meta-moments can provide us with space to interpret, understand, and add meaning to our experiences. A little friction in our flow is all we need. A roadblock must be overcome. A speed bump must be negotiated. A diversion must be navigated. Each of these cases involves our attention in a thoughtful way. Our level of engagement deepens. We have an experience we can remember. …
> 
> Our design practices don’t encourage this, though. We distract our users more than we intrigue them. We provide the constant possibility of better options elsewhere, so that users never have to think: “Okay, what next?” Our attention is always directed outward, not inward. And it — [not the technology itself, but how we design our interactions with it](http://www.nytimes.com/2015/01/21/opinion/smartphones-dont-make-us-dumb.html) — makes us dumb.
> 
> UXD strives toward frictionless flow: removing impediments to immediate action and looking to increase conversions at all costs. This approach delivers some great results, but it doesn’t always consider the wider story of how we can design and build things that sustain a lasting relationship. With all the focus on usability and conversions, we can forget to ask ourselves whether our online experiences are also enriching and fulfilling.

*[UXD]: User Experience Design
