---
uid:	200604030454
tags:	[correspondence, praise, Psalms 120]
---
  
# Church and the First Song of Ascents (Psalms 120)

Crossroads Family,

Praise Him for His goodness and mercy, and for His greatness in our midst! We had an extraordinary time of worship and prayer tonight. I wish it was recorded for those who couldn’t attend. I will try to be in touch with you personally, for those who were not there, to follow up on some important things.

With rejoicing and weeping we prayed for D—— and M—— as they are sent on a more permanent mission, to Tucson, Arizona. To all, commit time this week to pray for them and the church, with fasting if you are able. We thank God for the privilege to send off our best.

The celebration of Jesus’ Resurrection, Easter, is coming in two weeks. The time before Easter is a great time for Christians to prepare their hearts for the coming of the Lord. How will Crossroads be doing that this year? Between this Sunday (April 2) and Easter (Sunday, April 16) we will each personally read, meditate, and pray from one psalm a day from the Songs of Ascents. These are the Psalms numbered 120 through 134. We began at the church gathering tonight by reading Psalms 120. You may need to look at that again to begin on the right foot. Take your time reading each of them, to understand how they might prepare you for the coming of the Lord. These Psalms may have been used by Jewish pilgrims as they made their way to Jerusalem to celebrate the Passover. The first song is an expression of separation from the world, for it is not our home. Be a pilgrim as you read and respond. The Word will take us toward God, heavenward (that is why, in a way, they are called songs of “ascents”). God will carry us through.

I will send out a message daily until Easter, with the next psalm, and with any relevant information about what is happening with the church. Don’t hesitate to reply with what questions you may have.

Together for our Extraordinary God!  
C.

> **Psalms 120**  
> *A song of ascents.*
> 
> 1 I call on the LORD in my distress,  
> and he answers me.  
> 2 Save me, O LORD, from lying lips  
> and from deceitful tongues.  
> 3 What will he do to you,  
> and what more besides, O deceitful tongue?  
> 4 He will punish you with a warrior’s sharp arrows,  
> with burning coals of the broom tree.  
> 5 Woe to me that I dwell in Meshech,  
> that I live among the tents of Kedar!  
> 6 Too long have I lived  
> among those who hate peace.  
> 7 I am a man of peace;  
> but when I speak, they are for war.
