---
uid:	200604141107
tags:	[correspondence, Easter, Psalm 132]
---
  
# Psalm 132

Family,

It is finished. The Son of God perfectly obeyed the Father, unto death on a cross. Psalm 132 emphasizes the temple of God, where He was present among His people. On the cross, that old order of things was undone, and the veil of the temple was torn in half, and a new and living way was opened up to us to God, all through Jesus Christ. One temple was destroyed and another was has taken its place: the body of Jesus Christ. His body was broken that we might enter into it and be hid with Him when He ascended to Heaven. God’s presence among His people is not found in any building or on any mountain, or in anything built by human hands. His presence is in His body the church… us. This living temple of God cannot be destroyed. How ready are you to die to self and rise again in Christ, in true and abundant life?

What a good Friday. “When you were dead in your sins and in the uncircumcision of your sinful nature, God made you alive with Christ. He forgave us all our sins, having canceled the written code, with its regulations, that was against us and that stood opposed to us; he took it away, nailing it to the cross. And having disarmed the powers and authorities, he made a public spectacle of them, triumphing over them by the cross” (Col. 2:13–15).

Ever singing for joy,  
C.

> **Psalm 132**  
> *A song of ascents.*
> 
> 1 O LORD, remember David  
> and all the hardships he endured.
> 
> 2 He swore an oath to the LORD  
> and made a vow to the Mighty One of Jacob:
> 
> 3 “I will not enter my house  
> or go to my bed—
> 
> 4 I will allow no sleep to my eyes,  
> no slumber to my eyelids,
> 
> 5 till I find a place for the LORD,  
> a dwelling for the Mighty One of Jacob.”
> 
> 6 We heard it in Ephrathah,  
> we came upon it in the fields of Jaar:
> 
> 7 “Let us go to his dwelling place;  
> let us worship at his footstool—
> 
> 8 arise, O LORD, and come to your resting place,  
> you and the ark of your might.
> 
> 9 May your priests be clothed with righteousness;  
> may your saints sing for joy.”
> 
> 10 For the sake of David your servant,  
> do not reject your anointed one.
> 
> 11 The LORD swore an oath to David,  
> a sure oath that he will not revoke:  
> “One of your own descendants  
> I will place on your throne—
> 
> 12 if your sons keep my covenant  
> and the statutes I teach them,  
> then their sons will sit  
> on your throne for ever and ever.”
> 
> 13 For the LORD has chosen Zion,  
> he has desired it for his dwelling:
> 
> 14 “This is my resting place for ever and ever;  
> here I will sit enthroned, for I have desired it—
> 
> 15 I will bless her with abundant provisions;  
> her poor will I satisfy with food.
> 
> 16 I will clothe her priests with salvation,  
> and her saints will ever sing for joy.
> 
> 17 “Here I will make a horn grow for David  
> and set up a lamp for my anointed one.
> 
> 18 I will clothe his enemies with shame,  
> but the crown on his head will be resplendent.”
