---
uid:	200604101152
tags:	[correspondence, Psalm 128]
---
  
# Psalm 128

Family,

What a great time of worship we had last night! Continue to lift everything to Him who is able to help. We will continue our messages this week, ascending to the celebration of our Lord’s Resurrection next Sunday. If all goes smoothly (and we pray!), D—— and M—— will be leaving Wednesday for Hawaii. “The LORD replied, ‘My Presence will go with you, and I will give you rest’” (Ex. 33:14).

Be inspired by Psalm 128 to walk with the Lord and to settle yourself on His blessing: “You will eat the fruit of your labor; blessings and prosperity will be yours.” God is blessing: “Praise be to the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us in the heavenly realms with every spiritual blessing in Christ;” and “…in order that in the coming ages he might show the incomparable riches of his grace, expressed in his kindness to us in Christ Jesus” (Eph. 1:3; 2:7). You know God is blessing us now, but for many of us this week is still a difficult one. Brothers and sisters… pray for each other.

May the Lord bless you today… really.

Praying for you,  
C.

> **Psalm 128**  
> *A song of ascents.*
> 
> 1 Blessed are all who fear the LORD,  
> who walk in his ways.
> 
> 2 You will eat the fruit of your labor;  
> blessings and prosperity will be yours.
> 
> 3 Your wife will be like a fruitful vine  
> within your house;  
> your sons will be like olive shoots  
> around your table.
> 
> 4 Thus is the man blessed  
> who fears the LORD.
> 
> 5 May the LORD bless you from Zion  
> all the days of your life;  
> may you see the prosperity of Jerusalem,
> 
> 6 and may you live to see your children’s children.  
> Peace be upon Israel.
