---
uid:	200604151152
tags:	[correspondence, encouragement, Psalms 133]
---
  
# Psalms 133

Family,

During the “ascent,” pilgrims came to Jerusalem from many different walks of life, regions, and tribes to celebrate one common heritage: redemption! As Christians we are adopted into one family; and Crossroads is a very beautiful and diverse local expression of that united family. Our unity is precious because we are all ministers (Ps. 133:2, 1 Pet. 2:9–10) and we actively forgive and bless each other. And our unity is precious to me because of how refreshing it always is (like dew on a dry summer day! Ps. 133:3).

Prepare to be refreshed. Examine yourselves today while you await the coming of the Lord, and turn away from all that hinders. The health and growth of our church family begins with individuals being right with God. “But this is how God fulfilled what he had foretold through all the prophets, saying that his Christ would suffer. Repent, then, and turn to God, so that your sins may be wiped out, that times of refreshing may come from the Lord, and that he may send the Christ, who has been appointed for you — even Jesus” (Acts 3:18–20).

Remember to pray for (and participate in!) ministry; our celebration of Jesus’ Resurrection provides a great opportunity. This morning was a U of L soccer tournament and outreach. This evening is the International BSU “Saturday Nights Together” outreach for Easter. Your friends are waiting to hear!

How good and pleasant it is to be a part of God’s family with you,  
C.

> **Psalms 133**  
> *A song of ascents.*
> 
> 1 How good and pleasant it is  
> when brothers live together in unity!
> 
> 2 It is like precious oil poured on the head,  
> running down on the beard,  
> running down on Aaron’s beard,  
> down upon the collar of his robes.
> 
> 3 It is as if the dew of Hermon  
> were falling on Mount Zion.  
> For there the LORD bestows his blessing,  
> even life forevermore.
