---
uid:	200604091024
tags:	[correspondence, prayer, Psalm 127, scripture]
---
  
# Psalm 127

Family,

“Hosanna! Blessed is He who comes in the name of the Lord!” Today is traditionally called Palm Sunday on the Christian calendar; on it we celebrate the triumphal entry of Jesus into Jerusalem the week before His death and resurrection. A great crowd of pilgrims, who had “ascended” to Jerusalem for the Passover, welcomed Jesus as the promised Messiah. The hour had come for the Son of Man to be glorified (John 12:23).

Pray for your family (“house”) as you read through Psalm 127 today. Pray also for your community (“city”). Each of us has been working hard during the week, and trusting the Lord while we work. With God’s blessing on our work, it is not in vain (1 Cor. 15:58), and we can rest without fear today. Pray also that God would bless His house with the birth of new children — the salvation of souls.

Hosanna in the Highest!  
C.

> **Psalm 127**  
> *A song of ascents. Of Solomon.*
> 
> 1 Unless the LORD builds the house,  
> its builders labor in vain.  
> Unless the LORD watches over the city,  
> the watchmen stand guard in vain.
> 
> 2 In vain you rise early  
> and stay up late,  
> toiling for food to eat—  
> for he grants sleep to those he loves.
> 
> 3 Sons are a heritage from the LORD,  
> children a reward from him.
> 
> 4 Like arrows in the hands of a warrior  
> are sons born in one’s youth.
> 
> 5 Blessed is the man  
> whose quiver is full of them.  
> They will not be put to shame  
> when they contend with their enemies in the gate.
