---
uid:	200604111025
tags:	[correspondence, discipleship, Psalm 129]
---
  
# Psalm 129

Family,

The road of “ascents” is one of discipleship. It is an uphill road, but one that we are given special strength to walk. Even Jesus “learned obedience” uphill (Heb. 5:8), as He ascended not only to Jerusalem, but to Calvary and then to Heaven. That is the way: conversion, the cross, then glory. Keep your way according to Jesus’ path; you will persevere. Today, use all the resources Jesus used: the Holy Spirit, the Word of God, prayer, and the community of believers. Be rid of all that hinders. And when you wander or slip, remember… oh, remember! that Jesus has already succeeded and ascended in your place. By grace, through faith, your way is secured. Read Psalm 129 and persevere.

Be sure you have a special time with the Lord today, in personal prayer, in the Scriptures, and in worship. Then you are walking!

The Lord is righteous and has cut us free,  
C.

> **Psalm 129**  
> *A song of ascents.*
> 
> 1 They have greatly oppressed me from my youth—  
> let Israel say—
> 
> 2 they have greatly oppressed me from my youth,  
> but they have not gained the victory over me.
> 
> 3 Plowmen have plowed my back  
> and made their furrows long.
> 
> 4 But the LORD is righteous;  
> he has cut me free from the cords of the wicked.
> 
> 5 May all who hate Zion  
> be turned back in shame.
> 
> 6 May they be like grass on the roof,  
> which withers before it can grow;
> 
> 7 with it the reaper cannot fill his hands,  
> nor the one who gathers fill his arms.
> 
> 8 May those who pass by not say,  
> “The blessing of the LORD be upon you;  
> we bless you in the name of the LORD.”
