---
uid:	200604070839
tags:	[correspondence, Psalms 125, prayer request]
---
  
# Psalms 125

Family,

We were able to spend time with D—— and M—— for one more night last night. Keep praying for them, as the movers come today, as people begin looking at their house, and as D—— travels today to Vermont. He’ll return early next week and the two of them will leave shortly after for Hawaii. I don’t think we know how to express how much we’ll miss them.

Pray also today for: two outreach Bible studies for internationals. I will be a part of one meeting at the Speed School (U of L) and Sammy will be part of one at the Medical Campus. They both meet at noon and reach a good number of people. This has been a great place to build relationships and share the Bible. May God be exalted in all our hearts.

Trust in the Lord; He holds your heart, and His desire is to keep it upright. Thank you, Father.

Amen,  
C.

> **Psalms 125**  
> *A song of ascents.*
> 
> 1 Those who trust in the LORD are like Mount Zion,  
> which cannot be shaken but endures forever.
> 
> 2 As the mountains surround Jerusalem,  
> so the LORD surrounds his people  
> both now and forevermore.
> 
> 3 The scepter of the wicked will not remain  
> over the land allotted to the righteous,  
> for then the righteous might use  
> their hands to do evil.
> 
> 4 Do good, O LORD, to those who are good,  
> to those who are upright in heart.
> 
> 5 But those who turn to crooked ways  
> the LORD will banish with the evildoers.  
> Peace be upon Israel.
