---
uid: 200604081015
tags: [correspondence, Psalms 126, prayer request]
---
  
# Psalms 126

Family,

Please send any prayer requests (or praises!) and questions you may have. We will continue these messages through next week.

Pray today for: The Nepali outreach. D—— has invited all the Louisville Nepali’s to an Easter meeting, to continue sharing the gospel with them. Praise God that this can happen! Pray to God for wonderful things to be done, that people would see the need to respond to Jesus, and for a harvest to be brought in. The meeting is at 3:30pm, in Crismon Hall (basement of the library) at the Seminary. Also, pray for the international meeting tonight, SNT, at the BSU. May God use this emotional time (it is M——’s last meeting) to capture people’s hearts for Him.

Those who plant in tears, harvest in joy (Ps. 126). The Lord does great things for us: past, present, and future; let it be known among the nations, Lord.

Filled with joy,  
C.

> **Psalms 126**  
> *A song of ascents.*
> 
> 1 When the LORD brought back the captives to Zion,  
> we were like men who dreamed.
> 
> 2 Our mouths were filled with laughter,  
> our tongues with songs of joy.  
> Then it was said among the nations,  
> “The LORD has done great things for them.”
> 
> 3 The LORD has done great things for us,  
> and we are filled with joy.
> 
> 4 Restore our fortunes, O LORD,  
> like streams in the Negev.
> 
> 5 Those who sow in tears  
> will reap with songs of joy.
> 
> 6 He who goes out weeping,  
> carrying seed to sow,  
> will return with songs of joy,  
> carrying sheaves with him.
