---
uid: 200604060731
tags: [correspondence, Psalms 124, prayer request]
---
  
# Psalms 124

Family,

Hope to see some of you tonight at the pot-luck dinner. If you have any questions or plans to attend, contact C——.

Pray today for: S——, D—— and family. S—— may be finishing school soon and their future plans are uncertain. They may be leaving here, and we pray they will be useful instruments in the Redeemer’s hands, wherever He takes them. We are behind them all the way.

Brothers and Sisters, God is on our side (Ps. 124)! The Maker of heaven and earth! “What, then, shall we say in response to this? If God is for us, who can be against us? He who did not spare his own Son, but gave him up for us all — how will he not also, along with him, graciously give us all things?” (Rom. 8:31–32). He has broken every snare — of sin, of evil, of death; let nothing hold you back today from praising Him and gratefully serving Him with all that He has given you.

Amen,  
C.

> **Psalms 124**  
> *A song of ascents. Of David.*
> 
> 1 If the LORD had not been on our side—  
> let Israel say—
> 
> 2 if the LORD had not been on our side  
> when men attacked us,
> 
> 3 when their anger flared against us,  
> they would have swallowed us alive;
> 
> 4 the flood would have engulfed us,  
> the torrent would have swept over us,
> 
> 5 the raging waters  
> would have swept us away.
> 
> 6 Praise be to the LORD,  
> who has not let us be torn by their teeth.
> 
> 7 We have escaped like a bird  
> out of the fowler’s snare;  
> the snare has been broken,  
> and we have escaped.
> 
> 8 Our help is in the name of the LORD,  
> the Maker of heaven and earth.
