---
uid:	200604121414
tags:	[correspondence, Psalms 130, prayer request]
---
  
# Psalms 130

Family,

If all went well today, D—— and M—— are now on their way to Hawai'i. We will be meeting for mid-week training tonight at H——’s apartment, from 6:30–8pm. It is Crossroads’ cross-training!

With the Lord is forgiveness. But at what cost? Himself. “He Himself will redeem Israel” (Ps. 130:8). The greatest gift of all, Jesus, was given to pay for the greatest debt of all, my sin. And now the bargain of redemption: if you want to be redeemed from your debt and the power of sin, you must be bought and owned by God. “You are not your own; you were bought at a price” (1 Cor. 6:19–20). When have you bargained with the Lord? What is He asking of you today?

Pray to the Lord to send out laborers for His harvest, and obeyers of the Great Commission. Pray for the New York City mission team which is forming and preparing now (interested?). Pray also to be sensitive to opportunities to minister to friends, family, and neighbors during this “holy week.” We would welcome any of them to our church community this Sunday!

See you soon,  
C.

> **Psalms 130**  
> *A song of ascents.*
> 
> 1 Out of the depths I cry to you, O LORD;
> 
> 2 O Lord, hear my voice.  
> Let your ears be attentive  
> to my cry for mercy.
> 
> 3 If you, O LORD, kept a record of sins,  
> O Lord, who could stand?
> 
> 4 But with you there is forgiveness;  
> therefore you are feared.
> 
> 5 I wait for the LORD, my soul waits,  
> and in his word I put my hope.
> 
> 6 My soul waits for the Lord  
> more than watchmen wait for the morning,  
> more than watchmen wait for the morning.
> 
> 7 O Israel, put your hope in the LORD,  
> for with the LORD is unfailing love  
> and with him is full redemption.
> 
> 8 He himself will redeem Israel  
> from all their sins.
