---
uid: 200810211329
tags: [correspondence]
---
  
# Church Ministry Meeting this Sunday

Church,

It’s time to meet again to prayerfully plan our ministry for the next few months. We will plan our outreach with surveys at U of L and our new year retreat.

Our meeting with be this Sunday, October 26, after our regular church meeting. We will make these plans and eat together from 7–8:30pm. We will also officially recognize B—— this Sunday as an elder of Crossroads (we had already voted to welcome him during our last ministry meeting at the end of August).

Send me ahead of time any questions or things that need to be addressed by the church leadership. Please concern yourself with prayer for the church. And rejoice in the Lord!

Remember, you are welcome to join us for prayer before church Sundays at 4pm outside of B——’s apartment building.

To those who have been sent out by Crossroads, you can send us any updates or requests you’d like shared with the church.

I included below the Scripture that B—— preached from on Sunday.

Thanks,  
C.

> For the grace of God that brings salvation has appeared to all men. It teaches us to say “No” to ungodliness and worldly passions, and to live self-controlled, upright and godly lives in this present age, while we wait for the blessed hope — the glorious appearing of our great God and Savior, Jesus Christ, who gave himself for us to redeem us from all wickedness and to purify for himself a people that are his very own, eager to do what is good.
> 
> These, then, are the things you should teach. Encourage and rebuke with all authority. Do not let anyone despise you.
> 
> —Titus 2:11–15
