---
uid:	200805211222
tags:	[correspondence, encouragement, missiology, Psalms 67, sermon]
---
  
# May All the Peoples Praise You, O God!

> **Psalms 67**  
> *For the director of music. With stringed instruments. A psalm. A song.*
> 
> 1 May God be gracious to us and bless us  
> and make his face shine upon us,  
> *Selah*
> 
> 2 that your ways may be known on earth,  
> your salvation among all nations.
> 
> 3 May the peoples praise you, O God;  
> may all the peoples praise you.
> 
> 4 May the nations be glad and sing for joy,  
> for you rule the peoples justly  
> and guide the nations of the earth.  
> *Selah*
> 
> 5 May the peoples praise you, O God;  
> may all the peoples praise you.
> 
> 6 Then the land will yield its harvest,  
> and God, our God, will bless us.
> 
> 7 God will bless us,  
> and all the ends of the earth will fear him.

Psalms 67 is a prayer inspired by God’s gracious promises and provision. God had promised Abraham that through him all the peoples of the world would be blessed (Gen. 12:1–3, 15:1–6). His descendants became the Jewish people. God’s promises shaped the hearts and thoughts of some of these descendants, and they prayed that foreigners would have the same joy in belonging to God. It is a prayer that has been answered. God blessed the world through his Son, the Savior. Now we who were once outside God’s family as foreigners, we for whom Psalms 67 was prayed, are brought near to God through Jesus Christ. We who believe in Jesus become Abraham’s descendants, children of God’s promise (Eph. 3:6, Gal. 3:14).

All good blessings in this world — wealth, home, family, work, food, play — serve the best blessing: Jesus. All the things we possess and do — the things with which God has blessed us — bow down to the purpose for which they were given: “that your ways may be known on earth, your salvation among all nations.”

**We make God’s purposes our purposes.**

With the Son on our faces, we prayed on Sunday to send off M—— and J——. Family members were in attendance as we met outside to worship, and we sent them “in a manner worthy of God” (3 John 6).

**We are not sorry** for those who give up some blessings in order to bring the Best Blessing of All to the nations. They have all that is necessary for complete happiness: “the love and fellowship of our Lord, and a real purpose in life that keeps material things in proper perspective” (Frank and Marie Drown, *Mission to the Headhunters*).

**We stand by their side** in prayer. Our church meeting this Sunday (May 25) will be a special prayer service for our church’s missions in Louisville and for our missionaries. Also, when you bow to thank God before each meal, thank the Father also for sending Jesus, and pray that the nations would be blessed through what God has given you. And if necessary, pray in your own heart that God would soften you towards the nations.

**We are ready to go** ourselves at a moment’s notice. Stay alert so that you don’t waste one of your blessings — your summer. Get on the ball with memorizing Philippians. Men should prepare themselves for the men’s meeting. Give finances to support the church’s ministries. If you give money to Crossroads designated to “disaster relief” we will send it to ministries working in Myanmar or China. Build up others in the church and carry their burdens. Keep ready with the message, “Have joy in belonging to God!” and “Have real purpose in Jesus.” Fulfill your ministry.

I thank God that I am part of a church that prays big prayers to impact all peoples, a church that seeks to ignite a passion to reach the nations through Jesus Christ. I also thank God that we send out our best, and we pray for more to rise up in their place. Thank God for his promises and for the answered prayer of Psalms 67! God will bless us, and all the ends of the earth will fear him.

C.
