---
uid:	200901062255
tags:	[church, correspondence, encouragement, gospel]
---
  
# Retreat Week 2009

Praying Church,

What’s at the center of your life right now? I pray at the beginning of this year you clutch to the truth of cross as the most essential thing. “I want to remind you, brothers, of the gospel I preached to you… For what I received I passed on to you as of first importance: that Christ died for our sins…” (1 Cor. 15:1–4).

This past Sunday’s simple message, “Life’s Most Important Truth Can Be the Easiest to Forget,” was part 1. It was part 1. Part 2 will be this Wednesday evening at our home. We’ll meet at 6:30pm for a short meeting of worship, prayer, and God’s Word. For those who were not at church Sunday, this Wednesday time will launch us into three days of prayer and fasting.

Our annual retreat begins Saturday at 6:30pm at our home. We’ll be studying what it means for Crossroads to be a cross-cultural church (that is, a church with a culture defined by the cross, and a church going across cultures with the gospel). After a time of worship together Saturday, we’ll break our fast that evening with simple foods. The retreat will go until 4:30 or 5pm Sunday. There will be no church meeting at 5pm this Sunday.

Wednesday, 6:30 – 7:30pm: Church meeting  
Wednesday evening – Saturday evening: Prayer and fasting  
Saturday, 6:30pm – Sunday, 4:30pm: Retreat!

Near the Cross,  
C.

> The Cross is the blazing fire at which the flame of our love is kindled, but we have to get near enough for its sparks to fall on us.
> 
> —John Stott
