---
uid: 201505210909
tags: [prayer]
---

# The Servant in Battle: A Prayer

> O LORD,
> 
> I bless thee that the issue of the battle between thyself and Satan  
> has never been uncertain,  
> and will end in victory.
> 
> Calvary broke the dragon’s head,  
> and I contend with a vanquished foe,  
> who with all his subtlety and strength  
> has already been overcome.
> 
> When I feel the serpent at my heel  
> may I remember him whose heel was bruised,  
> but who, when bruised, broke the devil’s head.
> 
> My soul with inward joy extols the mighty conqueror.
> 
> Heal me of any wounds received in the great conflict;  
> if I have gathered defilement,  
> if my faith has suffered damage,  
> if my hope is less than bright,  
> if my love is not fervent,  
> if some creature-comfort occupies my heart,
> 
> O thou whose every promise is balm,  
> every touch life,  
> draw near to thy weary warrior,  
> refresh me, that I may rise again to wage the strife,  
> and never tire until my enemy is trodden down.
> 
> Give me such fellowship with thee  
> that I may defy Satan,  
> unbelief, the flesh, the world,  
> with delight that comes not from a creature,  
> and which a creature cannot mar.
> 
> Give me a draught of the eternal fountain  
> that lieth in thy immutable, everlasting love and decree.
> 
> Then shall my hand never weaken,  
> my feet never stumble,  
> my sword never rest,  
> my shield never rust,  
> my helmet never shatter,  
> my breastplate never fall,  
> as my strength rests in the power of thy might.

From [*The Valley of Vision: A Collection of Puritan Prayers and Devotions*, edited by Arthur Bennett](https://banneroftruth.org/us/store/devotionalsdaily-readings/the-valley-of-vision/) and sent to us by a friend.
