---
uid: 201409042236
tags: [adventure, disaster, Nepal]
image: https://cmhelmer.com/media/201409042236_1.jpg
---

# Monsoon Detours

We had an adventure of a trip across Nepal last week. We were on our way to language school. The monsoon — slow coming this year — dumped at last upon the Himalayan Range. The hills came down in floods and landslides on hapless villages and roads. Highway bridges broke. We tried to wait it out at the border. After a few days we flew in K—— with S—— for the start of her classes. I took the big ’uns and drove a 4x4 truck on a long detour.

People and goods made their way on foot across a major bridge that was disabled. Vehicles waited on either side to make the exchange. Our detour road was swamped like a terraced rice paddy. We made our way through the mire and enjoyed the village scenes.

During the following day's drive, we reached the hills and stopped for a break. The car wouldn’t start up again. Some soldiers were there and friendly. They called a young man who called a mechanic who said the battery was dead. He asked how far we had to go — almost 6 more hours. He jump-started it and said, “Don’t stop till you get there.”

Meanwhile, K——’s connecting flight in the capital had been downed by the rain and flights backed up for days. She hopped on a bus for the rest of the way — that road was clear. In the end, after 3 days, she got to our destination 3 hours ahead of us who were in the truck. A mercy: the kids didn’t complain a bit and showed me they could make it on any trip. Of course, it probably helped that they thought we were in a race with mom and brother.

---- 

The [floods and landslides this year](https://news.yahoo.com/nepal-flood-landslide-death-toll-rises-249-120826452.html) have displaced thousands and killed over 200 across Nepal. Many need help and damaged infrastructure makes aid difficult. Remember these families today. There are churches in the affected areas; ask that they would, “devote themselves to good works for cases of urgent need, so that they will not be unfruitful” (Titus 3:14 HCSB).
