---
uid: 201211191620
tags: [Nepali, song, contextualization, resource]
updated: 2018-03-19
---

# Himalchuli: Aradhna’s Nepali Compilation

Aradhna compiled an album of Nepali songs, *Himalchuli: Spiritual Songs from Nepal* (2009). Aradna’s lead singer and musician, Chris Hale, grew up in Nepal and studied sitar in India. The songs are folk songs and “bhajans” (devotional hymns), a fusion of east and west, sitar and guitar, tabla and drum kit.

Many of the songs are Nepali folk hymns arranged by Aradhna. The style and message fit a Hindu context but have been appreciated by Nepali and Western audiences wherever I’ve sung them with guitar.

The CD can be ordered at [www.aradhnamusic.com](http://www.aradhnamusic.com/). Aradhna makes the album available for free to those working with Bhutanese refugees. You can also compile the individual tracks from other albums. I listed the songs below with their original albums. Some of the songs are attributed to Olio, the band Hale formed before Aradhna. You can find song lyrics and loose translations listed with the original albums on [Aradhna’s discography page](http://aradhnamusic.com/discography/).

1. “Prabhu Ji,” *Aparampar* by Olio
2. “Na Socha,” *Deep Jalé* by Aradhna
3. “Himalchuli,” *Aparampar* by Olio
4. “Khola Khola Dhoka,” *Aparampar* by Olio
5. “Ishwarle,” *Marga Darshan* by Aradhna
6. “Aayo Hai Aayo,” *Amrit Vani* by Aradhna
7. “Lo Suna Saathi,” *Marga Darshan*  by Aradhna
8. “Surulurulu,” *Aparampar* by Olio
9. “Prabhu Ko Darshan,” *Marga Darshan* by Aradhna
10. “Ishwarle (Live),” *Satsang* by Aradhna

Aradhna also recorded a traditional Nepali Christmas song, “Herana,” on a later album, *Namaste Saté* (2011).