---
uid:	201211191757
tags:	[Nepali, Bible story, story set, resource]
updated:	2018-03-18
---

# Nepali Basic Bible Story Set

Omega Training Partnership (OTP) produced a set of basic Bible stories in Nepali. The language and style of the stories is ideal for a Hindu context in Western Nepal but it’s been useful among Nepali speakers elsewhere and for language learners like me.

The audio files are [available for download at the Orality Strategies website](https://orality.imb.org/resources/?id=227). Each story also has a black and white watercolor painting (in Nepali context) and a bullet-point summary of the story on the opposite side. The Creation to Church story has a more detailed “handy guide.” There is also a Nepali transcript with English back-translation.

The stories of the *Nepali Bible Story Set*:

1. God Creates the Unseen World
2. God Creates the World and Man  
3. Sin and Death Enter the World
4. Man Starts to Kill Man (Cain and Abel)
5. God Judges Evil by Flood
6. God Divides Many Languages
7. Abraham’s Call and Promise
8. God Tests Abraham’s Faith
9. God’s People in Egypt
10. Moses’ Birth and Calling
11. Plagues in Egypt and Deliverance
12. Ten Commandments and Idol Worship
13. David and the Eternal Kingdom
14. Elijah Proves the True God
15. Promise of the Coming Savior
16. The Birth of Jesus
17. Jesus Is Baptized and Tested
18. Jesus Chooses Twelve Disciples
19. Jesus Calms the Storm
20. Jesus Overcomes Demonic Power
21. Jesus Heals and Forgives Sin
22. Jesus Raises the Dead to Life
23. The Story of the Lost Son
24. Rich Man and Poor Man
25. The Last Supper
26. Jesus’ Arrest and Crucifixion
27. Jesus’ Resurrection and Ascension
28. Holy Spirit Comes on the Church
29. Creation to Church (“Fast Track”)

**[Nepali Bible Story Set](https://orality.imb.org/resources/?id=227)**