---
uid: 201803192206
tags: [Nepali, language learning, software]
---

# “Nepali in Context” Flash Cards

I made this flash card deck for [Anki software](#software) to accompany the book *Nepali in Context* (3rd ed.) by Daniel Watters and Narendra Rajbhandary. *Nepali in Context* is published by Ekta and found with audio CD in Nepal bookstores.

Contained in the deck are each chapter’s “Vocabulary” and “Useful Phrases” with audio, sample sentences from “Complex Verbs” and “Grammar,” and difficult sentences from “Text.” The deck includes both sides of the cards: comprehension (listening) and production (speaking).  

Cards have Devanagari script and Roman (English) transcription. Unicode fonts are embedded. Script was typed according to Nepali conventions but some systems display consonant clusters according to Hindi conventions.

Alternatives in notes are my own additions after study and use. They often reflect dialect differences. Notably, Nepali in the Terai and Darjeeling regions has mixed with Hindi.  

Chapters can be filtered by tag for study.

**Note:** The deck includes *Nepali in Context* chapters 1–22 and the Domestic and Religious appendices.

## Downloads

Choose to download the shared deck with or without audio.

- [Nepali in Context (with audio).apkg](https://cmhelmer.com/media/Nepali_in_Context_(without_audio).apkg) (40 MB)
- [Nepali in Context (without audio).apkg](https://cmhelmer.com/media/Nepali_in_Context_(with_audio).apkg) (460 KB)

## Software

[Anki](http://ankisrs.net) is a flash card program that uses spaced repetition. It’s a powerful and intelligent way to study. The software is free (for most devices) and open source. There’s also a free synchronization service to keep your flash cards in sync across devices or study online.

To use a shared deck, first [download Anki](https://apps.ankiweb.net/#download) and install it. Then [download one of the Nepali in Context decks](#downloads) and open the download. It will automatically import into Anki.

If you’ve already imported one of the decks and are updating it, you can do so safely. It will not remove your cards or overwrite your scheduling information.
