---
uid:	201705091602
tags:	[presentation, missiology, UUPG]
---

# Bibleless Peoples Presentation

Here is the outline of a “Bibleless Peoples” talk I gave to a group of national church planters. Many of these leaders work among or near people who do not have God's word in a language that they understand. They were able to identify some of the Bibleless people groups on our list. They also got riled up when I asked what languages they should work in. Some were in favor of using national or state languages, for the sake of unity; some for tribal languages, for the sake of understanding.

1. **(Theology) What is the “seed” that we sow?**
	- The seed is God’s word, the gospel of Jesus Christ: “The sower sows the word…” (Mk. 4:14)
	- Seed has all the potential for life, growth and multiplication
	- Look at “movement” in *Acts*
		- Movement is described as the growth of God’s word
		- Acts 6:7, 12:24, 13:49, 19:20, 28:31
	- What can a sower do without seed?
		- Many people and places have no “seed” available
		- The Bibleless are those without God’s word in a language that they understand
		- Who do you know without God’s word?

2. **(Linguistics) A look at languages**
	- People use different languages for different places and purposes (multilingualism)
	- What languages do you use for home, market, school, church, news?
	- Each language is strong in it’s area (domain)
	- The gospel can move in any language, but which language is priority for the “sower”?
		- The language of homes (*oikos*), houses of peace, where churches are planted
		- It’s better seen as “home language” (mother-tongue), not “heart language”
		- Look for living (vital) languages, spoken between parents and children

3. **(Strategy) How to work among the Bibleless**
	- Train in homes (if religious and home languages differ)
	- Houses of peace may speak local and trade languages well
	- Make small groups by language
	- Trade languages (languages of wider communication) may be enough for God’s word to grow
	- Test for understanding
		- Ask questions after teaching
		- Have people retell it in their own words
		- Does it spread between trainings?
		- Do they share at home in their language?
	- Use Bible stories, songs, pictures and dramas
		- Stories translate well
		- Stories give meaning to new words and phrases
	- Honor people who sing, pray and practice the gospel and testimony in their own language
	- Learn and speak the language, as it is the best way to encourage the spread of God’s word
	- Some groups will need the Bible translated
	- Make disciples according to the Scriptures
		- Do you give authority to God’s word in your own life and ministry?
		- Do you train from the Bible?
		- How does your own strategy compare with the Apostles’s teaching?
		- Do you aim for people to have faith in the gospel (not just obedience)?
		- When you leave a field, do you leave God’s word in the hearts of the people?
	- Our work isn’t done until there is a church that is growing in God’s word in a language that they understand (Acts 20:32, 2 Peter 1:15)

4. **Who are the Bibleless?**
	- There are churchless and Bibleless groups hiding around us
	- Look at the list
		- These are the groups without any Scripture resources (not just a Bible translation)
		- Have you seen any? Is this language spoken at home?
		- Do you know any bilingual believers or churches among them?
		- Do you have churches near to any of these groups?
		- Inform your churches
		- Tell us if a group needs Scripture resources
	- The churchless and Bibleless will be *hopeless* until someone from outside (us) goes in with the “seed” of God’s word
	- Be sure to plant God’s word in hearts and homes because it will grow and multiply
