---
uid: 201508250516
reference:
  title:	"More Than Good Advice: How the Gospel Is an Event"
  author:	N.T. Wright
  publication:	"RELEVANT Magazine (Issue 76: July/August 2015)"
  accessed:	August 25, 2015 at 5:16 AM
tags: [advice, gospel]
---

I found myself agreeing more and more heartily with Wright’s article as I read on. Though after the final statement, I thought: I don’t think God calls us to “live out of gratitude” but through the same faith by which we received Christ (see Col. 2:1 and Piper’s *Future Grace*). But the point is well-made: be thankful and live knowing it’s already done.

----

I added some excerpts of the article below because it is no longer available online.

> Ironically, many Western churches think of the Christian message as a system for how you do something — namely how you get saved, or how you behave, or some combination of the two. They conceive of faith as a system that is timelessly true, rather than news about an event that happened in history. …
>
> There are a thousand different ways of describing the good news — the Gospel — but the shortest way is the one Jesus Himself announced: “The time is fulfilled and the Kingdom of God is arriving” (Mark 1:15).
> 
> [S]ince many Christians think the Kingdom of God is simply a fancy way of saying “Heaven,” they miss the point: that something actually happened that changed the way in which God is now in charge of the world.
> 
> But when you take the whole package together, it’s about something that has happened as a result of which everything is different. Rather than something that has happened that merely enables us to operate a system of how we go to heaven.
> 
> God intends to put the whole world right. So He puts us right in the present through the good news so we can be part of His putting-right project for the world. When you see that, you realize this is the good news: God’s putting-right project has begun, and we’re not just the beneficiaries, we get to be part of it. That’s the reason we have the Holy Spirit, to enable us to be part of God’s putting-right project.
> 
> We live in-between the first mighty act of God in the resurrection of Jesus, and the final mighty act of God, when God does for the whole creation what He did for Jesus at Easter. We have to learn to live between those two moments.

> … whether you reorder your private spirituality or not. … 
> 
> [M]any Christians have settled for a version of good advice…

> If you really believe He has won the victory and is coming back to claim the throne, then it affects everything: How you think about every aspect of your life, how you believe what you believe about who God is, about the future of the whole world.
> 
> It includes how you behave; if this victorious King is coming back, you want to behave in the present in such a way that when He comes back, you won’t be ashamed and won’t find yourself kicked out, or worse. It’s not legalism, it’s living out of the reality of the good news. It would only be legalism if we thought that by keeping certain moral laws, we would make the initial victory happen.
> 
> We can’t make it happen. It has already happened. God has raised Jesus from the dead in a sovereign act of sheer, powerful grace. So what we have to do is live in the light of His resurrection. That means living out of gratitude rather than grasping.
