---
uid: 201512120841
reference:
  url: https://www.desiringgod.org/messages/charles-spurgeon-preaching-through-adversity
  title: "Charles Spurgeon: Preaching Through Adversity"
  author: John Piper
  publication: Desiring God
  date: January 31, 1995
  accessed: December 12, 2015 at 8:41 AM
tags: [biography, depression, sermon]
---

> Preaching great and glorious truth in an atmosphere that is not great and glorious is an immense difficulty. To be reminded week in and week out that many people regard your preaching of the glory of the grace of God as hypocrisy pushes a preacher not just into the hills of introspection, but sometimes to the precipice of self-extinction.
> 
> I don’t mean suicide. I mean something more complex. I mean the deranging inability to know any longer who you are. What begins as a searching introspection for the sake of holiness, and humility gradually becomes, for various reasons, a carnival of mirrors in your soul: you look in one and you’re short and fat; you look in another and you’re tall and skinny; you look in another and you’re upside down. And the horrible feeling begins to break over you that you don’t know who you are any more. The center is not holding. And if the center doesn’t hold — if there is no fixed and solid “I” able to relate to the fixed and solid “Thou,” namely, God, then who will preach next Sunday?
> 
> When the apostle Paul said in 1 Corinthians 15:10, “By the grace of God, *I am what I am*,” he was saying something utterly essential for the survival of preachers in adversity. If, by grace, the identity of the “I” — the “I” created by Christ and united to Christ, but still a human “I” — if that center doesn’t hold, there will be no more authentic preaching, for there will be no more authentic preacher, but a collection of echoes.
