---
uid: 201705261340
tags: [leadership]
---

# What New Power Looks Like

Notes from Jeremy Heimans’s talk, TEDSalon, June 2014 (in *TEDTalks Business* podcast)

[Heimans is a self-described “movement builder.”]

Indian activist Anna Hazare fought corruption by inviting the public to give him a miss call. He collected 35 million phone numbers and was able to mobilize 100,000 to protest in Delhi.

**What is new power?** It’s the deployment of *mass participation* and *peer coordination* to create change and shift outcomes.

Consider occupy politics, Airbnb, Kickstarter. There is commonality in these systems.

| Old power     | New power     |
| ------------- | ------------- |
| Currency      | Current       |
| Held by few   | Made by many  |
| Downloads     | Uploads       |
| Commands      | Shares        |
| Leader-driven | Peer-driven   |
| Closed        | Open          |

**What new power isn’t.** Not your Facebook page. New power isn’t inherently positive. New power isn’t the inevitable victor.

We’re at the beginning of a steep curve. Garage ideas are disrupting industries. New power feeds on itself. This gives rise to a new set of values:

**New Power Values**

- Transparency
- Do-it-ourselves
- Networked governance
- Participation
- Speed
- Collaboration
- More affiliative
- Fickle

**If you’re old power…** occupy yourself (before others do). Ask yourself the hard questions: if others could see inside your organization, would they like what they see?

**If you’re new power…** learn how to use institutional power without being institutionalized. Don’t be an island; turn your energy and power to public goods problems.
