---
uid: 201811132335
tags: [web development, CSS, performance]
---

# “The future of loading CSS” is Good for User and Developer

[📌 Jake Archibald, “The future of loading CSS” (Feb 11, 2016)](https://jakearchibald.com/2016/link-in-body/)

CSS blocks rendering of a web page until all stylesheets load. As [Harry Roberts put it](https://csswizardry.com/2018/11/css-and-network-performance/), “your page will only render as quickly as your slowest stylesheet.”

So link to stylesheets in-body.

``` html
<head>
	<link rel=“stylesheet” href=“/site.css”>
</head>
<body>
	<link rel=“stylesheet” href=“/site-header.css”>
	<header>…</header>

	<link rel=“stylesheet” href=“/article.css”>
	<main>…</main>

	<link rel=“stylesheet” href=“/comments.css”>
	<section class=“comments”>…</section>

	<link rel=“stylesheet” href=“/about.css”>
	<aside class=“about”>…</aside>

	<link rel=“stylesheet” href=“/site-footer.css”>
	<footer>…</footer>
</body>
```

[Jake Archibald’s technique](https://jakearchibald.com/2016/link-in-body/) is a win for both performance for the user and workflow for the developer. Stylesheet `<link>` in `<body>`:

- Loads CSS at the component level, avoiding redundant rules and downloading
- Allows for stylesheets to be independently cached, minimizing impact of changes (“cache-busting”)
- Progressively renders (displays) the web page rather than blocking the entire page
- Avoids the need to decide what’s “above-the-fold” critical CSS
- Avoids asynchronous loading of stylesheets which are complicated or JavaScript-dependent
- Fits into modern component-based design systems (keeps styles with components or includes)

> The plan is for each `<link rel="stylesheet">` to block rendering of subsequent content while the stylesheet loads, but allow the rendering of content before it. The stylesheets load in parallel, but they apply in series. This makes `<link rel="stylesheet">` behave similar to `<script src="…"></script>`.  

Some notes:

- Pay attention to layout that may shift during progressive rendering.
- This technique works across all modern browsers (see [Chrome Platform Status — Stylesheets activated after the body is started do not block paint](https://www.chromestatus.com/feature/5696805480169472)). Without browser support, it simply falls back to old render-blocking behavior.
- Loading multiple stylesheets is only performant with the updated protocol, HTTP/2. [Browser support for HTTP/2](https://caniuse.com/#search=http%2F2) is almost certain. HTTP/2 is already enabled on many host servers and CDNs. Secure connectivity (HTTPS) is required. This technique is still a good idea even if you avoid loading multiple stylesheets. Inline the CSS styles in-body instead of linking to the stylesheets.
