---
uid:	200408261220
title:	Finally, My Brethren
tags:	[correspondence, manhood, accountability]
---

*What do men — X-Men — do at a time like this, when the Professor has left, the Institute has closed its doors, and the same Wiles are lurking in the corner? Do they relocate? Disband? Fade away? Do they search for another professor… or for more mutants with whom they could team up?*

# Finally, My Brethren,

The clarion call of Christlikeness is still being sounded by God’s Holy Spirit and the surround of such a great cloud of mutants that have passed before us. *Be strong in the Lord, and in the power of his might.* Our group meetings were nothing new, and there will be men — deadened by the same human nature at birth but enlivened through Christ by the same Holy God forever — meeting moments before Eternity dawns. *Put on the whole armor of God, that ye may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil.* According to our Lord’s words we met together to help each other uphold a standard of purity, integrity, and moral responsibility; these Scriptures and this Standard remain. *For we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities, against powers, against the rulers of the darkness of this world, against spiritual wickedness in high places.* Our mission also remains: to stand against an advancing tide and further the Kingdom of God with our whole lives. *Wherefore take unto you the whole armor of God, that ye may be able to withstand in the evil day, and having done all, to stand.*

Men, do you have the End in sight? Can you see with what eager expectation all of creation groans for the sons of God to be revealed? Can you see with what unfailing love the Lord longs to save the lost through you? Can you see to what glorious freedom He will redeem you though it be through the fires of discipline, confession, and prayer? *Stand therefore…* He comes, and He comes quickly. He comes, always daily and always graciously, to quicken our hearts. Pray that you can honor Him by standing, and that He would provide whatever means are necessary for you, and for me, to keep us standing and serving strong. *Pray always with all prayer and supplication in the Spirit, and watching thereunto with all perseverance and supplication for all saints; and for me, that utterance may be given unto me, that I may open my mouth boldly, to make known the mystery of the gospel, for which I am an ambassador in bonds: that therein I may speak boldly, as I ought to speak.*

Men, if there is anyone in this world that has reason to stand, and if there is anyone I’ve seen that should be made worthy to receive this honor and the Honor to come, it is you. Therefore, stand.

---- 

My time in Buffalo ended well this summer. I also had a beautiful time of ministry in China, and though I am tired, my time here at seminary is even more beautiful in spirit than I had hoped. K—— and I hope you are even better!

I want to bring some of my experience to you, and let it serve as a “benediction” for the group we knew, whatever changes may come. It is a hymn written by Basil Manly, Jr. in 1860; this hymn was written for the first graduation ceremony at the seminary and now serves as the school’s anthem. Let its first three verses serve as a charge, and let the last be my farewell — for now. 

> Soldiers of Christ, in truth arrayed,  
> A world in ruins needs your aid:  
> A world by sin destroyed and dead;  
> A world for which the Savior bled.
> 
> His Gospel to the lost proclaim,  
> Good news for all in Jesus’ name;  
> Let light upon the darkness break  
> That sinners from their death may wake.
> 
> Morning and evening sow the seed,  
> God’s grace the effort shall succeed.  
> Seed-times of tears have oft been found  
> With sheaves of joy and plenty crowned.
> 
> We meet to part, but part to meet  
> When earthly labors are complete,  
> To join in yet more blest employ,  
> In an eternal world of joy.

Thank you, men. Grace and peace to you in Jesus always. I love you and I will miss you.

Yours,  
C., aka Professor X
