---
uid: 201505140517
tags: [America, church, news]
---

# “Is Christianity Dying?”: Bad news for America, but good news for the church

Highlights of [Russell D. Moore, “Is Christianity Dying?” on May 12, 2015 at Moore to the Point](http://www.russellmoore.com/2015/05/12/is-christianity-dying/).

> Christianity is dying. At least, [that’s what major newspapers are telling us today](http://mobile.nytimes.com/2015/05/12/upshot/big-drop-in-share-of-americans-calling-themselves-christian.html). I think this is perhaps bad news for America, but it is good news for the church.
> 
> This is good news because the kind of “Christianity” that is a means to an end — even if that end is “traditional family values” — is what J. Gresham Machen rightly called “liberalism,” and it is an entirely different religion from the apostolic faith handed down by Jesus Christ.
> 
> The Pew report holds that mainline denominations — those who have made their peace with the Sexual Revolution — continue to report heavy losses, while evangelical churches remain remarkably steady — even against some heavy headwinds coming from the other direction.
> 
> Christianity isn’t normal anymore, and that’s good news. The Book of Acts, like the Gospels before it, shows us that Christianity thrives when it is, as Kierkegaard put it, a sign of contradiction. Only a strange gospel can differentiate itself from the worlds we construct. But the strange, freakish, foolish old gospel is what God uses to save people and to resurrect churches (1 Cor. 1:20–22).
